

--- Page 1 Text ---
About
What Happens at YC?ApplyYC Interview GuideFAQPeopleYC Blog
Companies
Startup DirectoryFounder DirectoryLaunch YC
Startup Jobs
All Jobs◦ Engineering◦ Operations◦ Marketing◦ SalesStartup Job GuideYC Startup Jobs Blog
Find a Co-Founder
Library
SAFE
Resources
Startup SchoolNewsletterRequests for StartupsFor InvestorsHacker NewsBookface
Log in · Apply for F2025 batch.Apply
Home›
How to build your seed round pitch deck
How to build your seed round pitch deck
by Aaron Harris
Demo Day for our Winter 2018 batch is a week from today. We’re largely focused on preparing companies for their on-stage presentations, but are also working with them on slightly longer decks to use in follow-up conversations with investors.
I’ve written about pitching before, and realized that what we were missing was a clear template for how founders should lay out their stories through slides. The deck below is a template for how I think companies should build seed decks. While the main target for this template is a company raising its seed
round, the deck is not all that different from best practices for a Series A deck - which we’ll release next.
The key point to remember here is that founders should strive for clarity and concision. This is not the right place to write a treatise on your market or world philosophy. The simple truth is that there isn’t very much meaningful detail to explore for most seed stage companies. When founders pretend that there
is, their stories get muddled, and the investors get lost.
Focus on narrative. The rest is commentary. (see footnote)


[Image OCR - Page 1 Image 1]:


--- Page 2 Text ---
This is the title page. It has the name of your company, and a one line description of what you do.


[Image OCR - Page 2 Image 1]:
seed deck template, Inc.

A template that tells you how to build a seed deck


--- Page 3 Text ---
What is Y Combinator?
We're an accelerator that funds startups — like Coinbase, Instacart, Reddit, Doordash — at their earliest stages. Starting a company? Even if it feels early, 40% of our companies joined with just an idea.
Apply
This is the only place in the deck where you can only have 1 slide for what you need to show. Any of the other slides in this deck should be treated as a first slide of a set. If you can keep the set to n=1, that’s ideal, but if you need more, that’s ok. You probably don’t want any set here where n > 3. This is a seed
deck, remember.


[Image OCR - Page 3 Image 1]:


--- Page 4 Text ---
This is where you clearly state the problem. Particulars of how this problem impacts real world people/businesses are valuable.


[Image OCR - Page 4 Image 1]:
Founders build bad seed decks

e This wastes a huge amount of time
e Bad seed decks mean they don’t raise the money they need

e No money means companies are forced to survive on revenue


--- Page 5 Text ---
This is the solution. You want to explain what you do very clearly, in as few words as possible. Describe the concrete benefits you provide


[Image OCR - Page 5 Image 1]:
Our template solves this problem

e t's fast to use
e Simple to explain

e Improves lives and cleans teeth


--- Page 6 Text ---
Show off your traction (if you have it). Make the numbers clear and meaningful. It’s unlikely your curve will be this smooth. That’s ok.
Add some context next to the chart if you’ve got some great stats you want to add.


[Image OCR - Page 6 Image 1]:
All the companies are using us

Decks created per month
- 50% growth per
month. Every month.

- 100% retention

 


--- Page 7 Text ---
Got more metrics? Awesome! Add them!
Trick slide! Revenue would be better here, but this is ok.


[Image OCR - Page 7 Image 1]:
Money raised thanks to our decks

Dollars per month
US$s, not C$s

- 95% better than
fundraises without
our decks

 


--- Page 8 Text ---
Tell the investor what makes you so special, what makes this work, what your insights are. This might take more than one slide.


[Image OCR - Page 8 Image 1]:
Our decks work because of science

Time to create a deck is 90% less
Edward Tufte approved
We pick better color schemes

Have you heard of the power of paper?


--- Page 9 Text ---
Business model is important. You probably don’t know all the details yet, but you should know a lot of them. Lay it out. If you need more space to dig into something complicated, add slides.


[Image OCR - Page 9 Image 1]:
We make money on every deck

5% of all capital raised + 1% royalty on business revenue
That’s $6m in revenue last year alone
Free to produce new decks, because we don’t do any work, it’s a google slide

template


--- Page 10 Text ---
What’s the market here? Is it going to be big? Will you make it big? How much money are you going to make off this thing? Convince the investor that they’re going to make lots of money with you


[Image OCR - Page 10 Image 1]:
Future growth

There are 1000 slide decks made in SF every day
That’s the first market, but it’s slowed because of how hard decks are to build
We're going to make decks bigger, better, and easier, which means more

decks


--- Page 11 Text ---
Team! So important at seed. Talk about what makes your team particularly well suited to the problem. This should be about founders. Nobody cares about your advisors.


[Image OCR - Page 11 Image 1]:
 

 

CTO with CEO who VP eng
lots of knows how who
experience to pitch does not

sleep


--- Page 12 Text ---
Tell the investor how much money you need, and what it gets you. If you can lay out where you’ll be inside of a year, which should make you Series A ready, that’s powerful
footnote: This deck is intentionally simple in design. Kevin Hale wrote a great piece about how to design decks well.
Thanks to Jared Friedman for suggesting that we put this together, and for reviewing it.
1. Related


[Image OCR - Page 12 Image 1]:
What we need

$1.5m
This is for engineers and marketing
With this money, we'll hit all the milestones for our next round within 2 days

Thanks


--- Page 13 Text ---
6:20
How pitching investors is different than pitching customers
105K views
Over 1 year ago
YC's essential startup advice
Y Combinator
Here is what we, at YC, consider the most important, most transformative advice for startups.
A guide to seed fundraising
Geoff Ralston
The most comprehensive guide on why, when, and how to raise money for your startup.
How to design a better pitch deck
Kevin Hale
Investors invest in teams not slides. Your slides should make your ideas more clear. Here are design principles to follow when creating your pitch deck and story.
Programs
YC Program
Startup School
Work at a Startup
Co-Founder Matching
Company
YC Blog
Contact
Press
People
Careers
Privacy Policy
Notice at Collection
Security
Terms of Use
Resources
Startup Directory
Startup Library
Investors
SAFE
Hacker News
Launch YC
YC Deals
Make something people want.
Apply
© 2025 Y Combinator


[Image OCR - Page 13 Image 1]:
7"

wv:
, é

PITCHING
INVESTORS
vs
PITCHING
(AUS LOLI 39

le


[Image OCR - Page 13 Image 2]:
